[MUSIC]
This lecture will talk about different
online services that your Raspberry Pi, or
any device really can interact with and
get services from.
Request services get responses from them.
Web-based services, so by this we
mean services in the cloud, right?
So some service that is
run on remote servers
that are accessible through the network.
These are services that
typically Raspberry Pi can't,
doesn't have the ability to do.
So maybe it's too computationally
intensive, the task that it performs, or
maybe it just doesn't have the data
that it needs or something like that.
So, runs on a remote server except, so
there's some remote server, say from
Facebook, some of our servers, and they
accept requests from clients so a client
like your Raspberry Pi will send a request
and then, you'll get the service.
And they interact typically
using HTTP messages.
These are web based services, right?
So the interface is going to be HTTP.
Now, HTTP messages are constrained,
but they are HTTP formatted messages.
So here's a picture of what
something might look like.
So you've got some device, I'm drawing
out a little cell phone icon there but
it can be any, it can be Raspberry Pi or
whatever it is, it makes a request
to some servers at Google Maps.
Give me a map of UCI.
Now of course it doesn't just
say give me a map of UCI.
There's a formatted
message there that's sent.
And then those servers receive it,
they get the map, and they send a response
which contains the map or data to
find the map or something like that.
So that's the idea,
to have these services running remotely.
And it adds a lot of power to your system,
right,
because a Raspberry PI
alone can only do so much.
But if you want to be Internet of Things,
and
this thing needs to communicate with the
internet and access these remote services.
So this is a very common thing that
IoT devices can do is sort of access
bigger services provided by servers
somewhere out there on the network.
So applications programming interface,
or API.
API is a common shorthand for it.
So an API defines a communication
interface between programs.
So when we're talking about these web
based services, the API defines the format
of the messages that have to go back and
forth from client to server.
Now, these are web based services
that we're talking about, so
these are all HTTP messages.
But the API's going to define
the content of the HTTP message.
So for instance, what information
should be in each header, right?
Which headers are required?
What should be in the payload,
if there's a payload?
Things like that.
They have to be defined by this API.
So the API just tells you, client, if you
want to make this request, request for
this data you should format a message in
this way, an HTTP message in this way.
If you want to request this type
of data you format in this way.
And they tell on the other side,
they say, look,
when you receive the response back you
can expect the data to be in this field,
in this field and and this other type
of data is in this field and so on.
So it tells you the format of
the messages that go back and
forth between the client and the server,
so request response messages.
It also defines the legal sequence
of messages if a sequence is
Is actually relevant.
So, what I mean by that is that a lot
of these protocols are stateless,
that is, you send one message,
you get one response, and
there's no memory of a previous sequence
of things that happened before, right?
But sometimes, there are message
sequences, so you send one message and
then you get this response and based on
the response you send another message,
so there can be a sequence of messages.
And if that was the case,
if you had an API like that,
if you had a protocol like that,
then the API would have to specify that.
It would say, you send this message first,
and then if you get this response,
you can either send this or
that message, something like that.
So that would be a more complicated API,
but
that's all within the scope
of what you'd call an API, to
define the legal message formats and then
the sequences, if there are sequences.
So for example here,
this is my mock up of Google Maps API.
Now, this is not a Google Maps API,
but this is the idea.
Say Google Maps API,
I wants to get a map of some place.
So maybe they say look, you send an HTTP
message, it's gotta be a get message.
And after the get you gotta put in the,
under maps you put in the name of
the place that you want the map from and
it will go and find that map for you.
And then you give the HTTP version or
something like that.
This is overly simplified but
that's the idea.
It tells you how you compose
the HTTP message in order to get
the result that you want,
to get the service that you want.
Now API is one term, SDK is another
term that is related in this context,
Software Development Kit.
Now there's a broader definition outside
of network protocols but in our scope
Software Development Kit, an SDK, it's a
set of tools to support the use of an API.
Now, that can mean different things,
typically what it means is
it's a bunch of library functions,
okay, that support the use of the API.
So, an API just tells you the format,
what the messages should look like and
how they should be formatted.
The SDK is supposed to be,
it's typically a bunch of library
functions that adhere to that API.
So what that means is that the programmer
doesn't need to know the details of
the API because the SDK acts as
an interface for him or her.
So for instance,
if you want to send a message to get
a map from Google Maps, right?
One way would be to just know the API
that I showed in last slide, and then,
you create a string that looks like
that and then bam, you send that.
Or if you have an SDK,
the SDK might have a library function
in there that says, get map.
Get map location or
something like that and
then it just takes one argument which
is UCI, the name of the place you want.
And then it's the job of that function to
actually create the proper request message
and send it out.
So it makes it easier.
If you have an SDK, you have these library
functions where you don't even have to
know the details of the API.
You just call the library functions and
they handle all the details.
So SDKs are good.
Sometimes API and
SDK are used interchangeably, okay.
So watch out for that.
Sometimes when you're looking up API,
SDK, when you want an SDK,
you look up API and
you end up finding SDK.
So the difference between APIs and
SDKs sometimes is blurred.
But roughly the API defines the interface
and the SDK is a bunch of tools,
maybe just library functions,
that help you use the API.
So here's my example that
I was walking through.
The API says, look,
here's the format of a get message to
get a map from Google Maps, let's say.
And the SDK instead provides you with this
GetMap function that takes care of it and
formats the message and sends it for
you, something like that.
So that's roughly the relationship.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]